README.md, before:

[![main: CI](https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/actions/workflows/main.yml)

# Flojoy

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add your own custom Python nodes to Flojoy apps.

***

# Flojoy Quickstart

- [Run Flojoy with Docker](#run-flojoy-on-docker)
- [Run Flojoy without Docker (Mac/Linux only)](#run-flojoy-without-docker-maclinux-only)

## Run Flojoy on Docker

1. Install Docker if you haven't already (https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).
2. Clone this project and `cd` into the project root in your CLI (such as Terminal for Mac or PowerShell for Windows).
3. Run `docker compose up` on the CLI to build, create and run the containers, networks and volumes. The first time, it will take a while as it will pull the base images and build the containers. But after that it will be quite fast to run.
4. Run `npm start`
5. Go to [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and start using flojoy.

Run `docker compose down` to stop and remove the containers, networks and volumes.

Note: You can develop in Docker as the volumes have been mapped to the containers.

### View logs of any service

Currently there are four Docker services.
**redis**, **rq-worker**, **backend**, **frontend**

To follow realtime log of any of them, open up a terminal and run:
`docker logs --follow --tail="all" flojoy-desktop-{service-name}-1`
You can also use the docker-desktop to control and check logs for the services.

## Run Flojoy without Docker (Mac/Linux only)

1. Clone this repo
2. Make sure that you have Python 3, Redis, and Node already installed. Please note that this project requires Python 
3. `cd` into the project root
4. Run `$ sh mac_start_up.sh`

   - If you have `virtualenv` installed you can provide the path to the virtualenv folder as follows `sh mac_start_up.sh -v venv2`
   - You can provide optional argument `-r` which will shut down the existing redis server and spin up a fresh one
   - You can provide `-n` argument to skip installing Javascript packages.
   - You can provide `-p` argument to skip installing python packages. 
   - Optionally you can provide port number followed by `-P` argument to run backend server on specific port.
   - You can provide a branch name for [APPS](https://github.com/flojoy-io/apps) submodule to pull latest changes from that branch by providing branch name followed by `--apps_branch` argument. i.e `sh mac_start_up.sh --apps_branch main`
   - You can provide a branch name for [NODES](https://github.com/flojoy-io/nodes) submodule to pull latest changes from that branch by providing branch name followed by `--nodes_branch` argument. i.e `sh mac_start_up.sh --nodes_branch main`

# Running ElectronJS locally

If you'd like to run Flojoy as an Electron app:

1. (Optional) Set the following env variables. These variables are used in the [docker-compose.yml file](docker-compose.yml) to set the image tags.
Put any specific tag value if you need, otherwise Docker will use the latest by default.
```
BACKEND_IMAGE_TAG=latest
RQ_WORKER_IMAGE_TAG=latest
WATCH_IMAGE_TAG=latest
```
2. Run `npm run electron-dev` to start Electron app locally. It will start the Docker containers to run the necessary backend parts.

To package the Electron app, run `npm run electron-package`. The `dist` folder will hold the generated artifacts.

# CD

Currently there are two CD workflows.
1. [Base image CD](.github/workflows/cd_image.yaml): Builds and pushes the base image used in [the docker files](./docker).
2. [CD](.github/workflows/cd.yaml): Runsi if a version tag is added. It builds packages, creates executables and creates github release with those artifacts.

## Using CD to build executables

The CD workflow is triggered when any change is pushed to any tag. So, to trigger it,

1. Tag a commit with v*.. pattern. For example : `git tag v0.1.1`
2. push the commit and tag : `git push && git push --tags`
3. The CD workflow will then run, generate artifacts and create draft release with those artifacts.
4. Go to `https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/releases` to check the new draft release.

# License and Copyright

Flojoy is released under the [AGPLv3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html). This is a copy-left license in the GPL family of licenses. As with all [OSI approved licenses](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical), there are no restrictions on what code licensed under AGPLv3 can be used for. However, the requirements for what must be shared publicly are greater than for licenses that are more commonly used in the Python ecosystem like [Apache-2](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0), [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), and [BSD-3](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).

The Flojoy copyright is owned by On-Scence Creative, and contributors are asked to sign a Contributor License Agreement (based on the Oracle CLA) that grants the company the non-exclusive right to re-license the contribution in the future. For example, the project could be re-licensed to one of the more permissive licenses above, or it could be dual licensed with a commercial license as a means to support the project.

If you might be interested in using Flojoy in a context where the AGPL license is prohibitive, [please get in touch](mailto:jack.parmer@proton.me).

Commit message:

remove git functionality from startup script and update readme

README.md, after:

[![main: CI](https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/actions/workflows/main.yml)

# Flojoy

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) to add your own custom Python nodes to Flojoy apps.

***

# Flojoy Quickstart

- [Run Flojoy with Docker](#run-flojoy-on-docker)
- [Run Flojoy without Docker (Mac/Linux only)](#run-flojoy-without-docker-maclinux-only)

## Run Flojoy on Docker

1. Install Docker if you haven't already (https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).
2. Clone this project and `cd` into the project root in your CLI (such as Terminal for Mac or PowerShell for Windows).
3. Run `docker compose up` on the CLI to build, create and run the containers, networks and volumes. The first time, it will take a while as it will pull the base images and build the containers. But after that it will be quite fast to run.
4. Run `npm start`
5. Go to [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and start using flojoy.

Run `docker compose down` to stop and remove the containers, networks and volumes.

Note: You can develop in Docker as the volumes have been mapped to the containers.

### View logs of any service

Currently there are four Docker services.
**redis**, **rq-worker**, **backend**, **frontend**

To follow realtime log of any of them, open up a terminal and run:
`docker logs --follow --tail="all" flojoy-desktop-{service-name}-1`
You can also use the docker-desktop to control and check logs for the services.

## Run Flojoy without Docker (Mac/Linux only)

1. Clone this repo with `--recursive` argument as follows: `git clone --recursive https://github.com/flojoy-io/studio.git`
2. Make sure that you have Python 3, Redis, and Node already installed. Please note that this project requires Python 
3. `cd` into the project root
4. Run `$ sh mac_start_up.sh`

   - If you have `virtualenv` installed you can provide the path to the virtualenv folder as follows `sh mac_start_up.sh -v venv2`
   - You can provide optional argument `-r` which will shut down the existing redis server and spin up a fresh one
   - You can provide `-n` argument to skip installing Javascript packages.
   - You can provide `-p` argument to skip installing python packages. 
   - Optionally you can provide port number followed by `-P` argument to run backend server on specific port.

# Running ElectronJS locally

If you'd like to run Flojoy as an Electron app:

1. (Optional) Set the following env variables. These variables are used in the [docker-compose.yml file](docker-compose.yml) to set the image tags.
Put any specific tag value if you need, otherwise Docker will use the latest by default.
```
BACKEND_IMAGE_TAG=latest
RQ_WORKER_IMAGE_TAG=latest
WATCH_IMAGE_TAG=latest
```
2. Run `npm run electron-dev` to start Electron app locally. It will start the Docker containers to run the necessary backend parts.

To package the Electron app, run `npm run electron-package`. The `dist` folder will hold the generated artifacts.

# CD

Currently there are two CD workflows.
1. [Base image CD](.github/workflows/cd_image.yaml): Builds and pushes the base image used in [the docker files](./docker).
2. [CD](.github/workflows/cd.yaml): Runsi if a version tag is added. It builds packages, creates executables and creates github release with those artifacts.

## Using CD to build executables

The CD workflow is triggered when any change is pushed to any tag. So, to trigger it,

1. Tag a commit with v*.. pattern. For example : `git tag v0.1.1`
2. push the commit and tag : `git push && git push --tags`
3. The CD workflow will then run, generate artifacts and create draft release with those artifacts.
4. Go to `https://github.com/flojoy-io/flojoy-desktop/releases` to check the new draft release.

# License and Copyright

Flojoy is released under the [AGPLv3 license](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0.en.html). This is a copy-left license in the GPL family of licenses. As with all [OSI approved licenses](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical), there are no restrictions on what code licensed under AGPLv3 can be used for. However, the requirements for what must be shared publicly are greater than for licenses that are more commonly used in the Python ecosystem like [Apache-2](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0), [MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT), and [BSD-3](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause).

The Flojoy copyright is owned by On-Scence Creative, and contributors are asked to sign a Contributor License Agreement (based on the Oracle CLA) that grants the company the non-exclusive right to re-license the contribution in the future. For example, the project could be re-licensed to one of the more permissive licenses above, or it could be dual licensed with a commercial license as a means to support the project.

If you might be interested in using Flojoy in a context where the AGPL license is prohibitive, [please get in touch](mailto:jack.parmer@proton.me).
